OAuth is actually for delegated authorization, not authorization.
It is a resource owner giving a third party access to a
protected resource on their behalf.
The best way to get your head around this is with an example.
Now if Victoria has a bank account,
she is authorized to withdraw money from her account by the bank.
That's authorization.
However,
if Victoria wants to delegate Adam to withdraw some funds from her bank account,
she can authorize Adam to do so.
However,
that doesn't mean that Adam is authorized to withdraw the
money by the bank on Victoria's behalf.
If the bank has a policy that only the account
holder is allowed to withdraw funds,
even if the bank verifies with 100% certainty that Victoria
authorized Adam to withdraw funds on her behalf,
the transaction is still not authorized as it breaks the bank's policy.
That's delegated authorization.
Additionally, there is a misconception that OAuth is purely for social sign-in.
That's one popular use case for OAuth.
However, OAuth is much more.
In fact, it's really not for authentication. We'll discuss why next.